change I change your life change the
classy hey it's tim van orden with
the running raw project i'm on a boot
run behind my house and as you just saw
I'm an idiot I like to have fun when I
run I'm listening to a really cool book
on neuroscience right now why the brain
believes strange things some just
exploring the woods off trail and yeah I
wanted to see if I could jump across the
open water in the beaver pond it's about
an 8 to 10-foot gap and I thought I
could clear it you know I used to be a
long jumper in high school and this is a
small jump even with boots on no problem
right well what I didn't consider was
the last step that I took the one that I
put all my weight on to make that leap
was not stabilized and I broke
fortunately I'm learning by big boots
and two layers of pants and although my
pants are soaked my feet are dry another
reason to wear the big rubber boots when
your head in the winter so as I'm
standing here feeling like a fool and
licking my wounds something occurred to
me this often happens to us in life
we're running along totally confident
totally competent we see a gap we're
going to take a big leap towards
veganism or towards raw food
towards running a marathon or towards
whatever the goal might be and there's
this this leap you have to make there's
this gap you've got across I'm here and
the answer is over there and I know that
I'm competent I know I can do this I'm
totally confident and boom I take the
leap the problem is that we don't have
all the information about the ground
we're standing on when we take that leap
we don't have all the information about
our own state or emotional state or the
state of the world or the state of the
people involved in the project whatever
it is we don't have all the information
we don't know with weaknesses so we let
our own confidence and competence blind
us to the possibility that something
could go wrong the ice can break things
can follow her the person that you say I
love you too may not love you back the
diet may fail because maybe you had some
emotional issues that you hadn't dealt
with and they're going to come back and
full force and haunt you or maybe you do
have a vitamin or mineral deficiency or
a macro nutrient deficiency or a genetic
anomaly that causes you to require much
more of a certain nutrient than most of
the population until you get a larger
view of that picture those big leaps can
be really dangerous now I'm lucky it's
in the 20s right now I'm two and a half
miles from my house and I'm wet up to
the thigh but my feet are dry because
i'm prepared i'm prepared because i know
that taking the little steps of
preparation are going to make those
leaps somewhat safe so this is why I'm a
really big fan of tiny steps and little
leaps because things like this can
happen the big leaps can be dangerous
unless you know the whole picture and
it's really hard to know the whole
picture like when you're making a
dietary transformation and unless you
know your entire body chemistry and
genetic history you might run into some
problems if you make those big leaps or
if you don't know what's going on
psychologically or if you don't know
what's going on
with another person that you're choosing
to partner up with and we seldom do know
these things so when you take a little
step you're going to get some evidence
you're going to find out okay what's
going on here and is it good or is it
bad if it's bad maybe I don't want to
take another step or if it is bad is
there a way that I can prepare if it
gets worse is there something I can do
can I grow so that I can handle the next
step or do I just walk away but when you
take those big steps you're often
unprepared because you're confident and
competent and why should I be prepared
it's a small jump it's eight to ten feet
I can do that but I never considered the
ice and many people don't consider their
own personal challenges when they take
these big leaps so be careful take two
little steps forward get some
information then take one step back is
it safe to go ahead is there something I
need to learn is there something i need
to prepare before i go back again then
take two steps forward learn investigate
collect data take one step back it's a
slower process but it's a much safer
process sometimes you have to take a big
leap you don't have a choice but by
doing these little steps and learning
and growing and preparing yourself
you're gonna as I did today have a
better chance of surviving the big leaps
but even then there's no guarantee so
little steps go home before my pants
turn into solid rock nice let's see
you